
README - LINKWALLA - Version 1.063 - June 24, 2008

Change List:
* Smoothed out some issues around login status and the bookmarklet.
* Added new version of protoype JS library
* This is the first version offered from Google Code. 

If you are upgrading from 1.062 you should replace these files:

* lwFunctions.php
* login.php
* item-edit.php
* lwSettings-edit.php
* prototype.js

--- 

Thanks for checking out Linkwalla. I would really love it if you sent me
an email telling me that used this. Go to http://benbrophy.com/contact/

REQUIRES: PHP 5

WHAT DOES LINKWALLA DO?:
 - Build a simple link blog on your website. 
 - Add, edit and delete entries from the blog.
 - An installer to makes getting started easy.
 - Creates an RSS feed as you update the blog. 
 - An individual page for each entry serves as a permalink and improves 
   search engine indexing
 - Monthly archives of entries
 - Runs off XML files - no DB needed
 - Comes with a JavaScript bookmark for adding links from your browser
 - Copy new links to your del.icio.us account when you add them
 - Copy new links to your Magnolia account when you add them
 - If you link to a photo in Flickr, a thumbnail of the photo is
   automatically inserted in your entry.
 - Displays links using the xFolk microformat


INSTALLATION: 
- Copy all files to your server. (Note: It doesn't matter what you name 
  the directory or if the files are at the document root of your server.
  Everything will work as long as you keep the Linkwalla files together in
  the same directory.)
- In your web browser navigate to the directory where you uploaded the
  folders. The Linkwalla home page - 'index.php' - will have a link to the
  installation page.
- Fill out the form on the installer, and submit.
- Delete the installation page (lwInstaller.php) from your webserver. If
  you don't someone could use it to take over your linkwalla. 
- Have fun! Let ke know how it goes: http://benbrophy.com/contact/


DIRECTIONS: 
Hopefully pretty self explanatory. Click "log in" at the top of the page
to get started (default password = "pw"). Then you'll see links to add,
remove and edit links. The bookmarklet will make you're life much
easier. 

You can add HTML tags to link descriptions or create them easily by
writing using the 'Markdown' format. See
http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/basics


USING THE BOOKMARKLET:
You will find the find bookmarklet on the settings page. You can add the
edited bookmarklet to your web browsers bookmarks either by dragging it
onto your bookmark bar or right-clicking it and selecting "Add to
favorites" (vaires depending on which web browser your use.

When you arrive at a page you would like to bookmark, just click the
bookmarklet and you will arrive in linkwalla with the link info
pre-filled.

FILE LIST:
lwFunctions.php
These functions include basic authorization functions (Sets a cookie if
you fill out the password. Checks to see if you're logged in, etc.)
Other functions to generate XML, RSS, the HTML for link lists and the
export to del.icio.us and ma.gnolia. 

lwInstaller.php
This is the first page you use in Linkwalla. It sets up your settings
file, your archives and your RSS feed. Be sure to delete this file from
your server after you use it. 

lwSettings.xml
This file stores your passwords, and information that will go in your
RSS feed. (don't worry, the passwords are encrypted). The file is
generated when you submit lwInstaller.php

foot.php
head.php
These 2 files can be edited to match your web design. There is some
basic PHP templating stuff you might want to keep in head.php, and be
sure to preseve the javascript, css and RSS links.

index.php
Main view, shows the link list, and the command links if you are logged
in.

item-detail.php
This is the template for viewing one link at a time. 

item-act.php
This is the PHP that processes forms for adding, editing and removing
links.

item-edit.php
The form for adding or editing links.

item-remove.php
The confirmation page for removing links.

archive/*.xml
This is the 'database' that stores the link data. A new XML file will be
generated for every month (this makes linkwalla scale better as you use
it year after year). The directory and  initial archive file are
generated when you submit lwInstaller.php

linkrss.xml
RSS feed that is updated when the link list is modified. The file is
generated when you submit lwInstaller.php

linkwalla.js
Validation and dynamic display scripts.

linkwalla.css
This file can be edited to match your web design. 

login.php
Login form (a simple username and password).

overlay.png
Translucent image used when the add/edit link form pops up.

lwbookmark.gif
Bookmark icon used for permalinks in the link list.

markdown.php
External PHP function that converts the text used in link descriptions
to HTML. See http://www.michelf.com/projects/php-markdown/

prototype.js
External javascript library used to make adding ajax interactions easier
for the developer. (see http://prototypejs.org/ to learn more)
